---
headline: Creating a Watch Service
date: "2020-11-04"
description: We develop a parallel watch service that send webhooks to discord periodically
language: english
category: post
outdated: false
page: 3
github: -
keywords:
  - python
  - aws
  - discord
  - bot
---

So far, our application just stores information in a database. In this tutorial, we are going to develop the business logic that is going to recommend us to place long or short positions. Effectively, this is going to be an asynchronous service running in AWS Lambda triggered by AWS Cloudwatch every 30 minutes.

## Extract, Process, Notify: Building a AWS Lambda Handler Function

AWS Lambda expects a function that receives an `event` and a lambda `context`. Start by creating a `.py` file and pasting the code below

```python
def handler(event, context):
    pass
```

We won't even use the function input/output now, but we must keep the arguments there or Python is going to fail when Lambda tries to call it.

### TL;DR

<tldr>

```python
import boto3
import requests
import yfinance
from decouple import config
from ta.momentum import RSIIndicator
from pandas_datareader import data as pdr

DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL = config("DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL")

yfinance.pdr_override()

dynamodb = boto3.resource('dynamodb')

def handler(event, context):
    data = dynamodb.Table('bot').scan(Limit=1000)
    all_symbols = [item["symbol"] for item in data["Items"]]

    df = pdr.get_data_yahoo(" ".join(all_symbols), period="1d", interval="30m")

    for symbol, close in df["Close"].iteritems():
        rsi = RSIIndicator(close, n=14).rsi()

        last = rsi.iloc[-1]
        if last < 20:
            action = "buy"
        elif last > 80:
            action = "sell"
        else:
            action = "hold"

        # notify in discord with webhook
        requests.post(DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL, json={"content": f"time to {action} {symbol}", "tts": False})
```

</tldr>


### Extract from DynamoDB

Initially, the handler method has to extract our DynamoDB Table. As you've seen in the first part, in order to call Dynamo, start by defining the resource

```python
import bot3

dynamodb = boto3.resource('dynamodb')
```

Now, we get all data from our `bot` Table by calling its `scan` method.

```python
# this goes inside the handler()
data = dynamodb.Table('bot').scan(Limit=1000)
all_symbols = [item["symbol"] for item in data["Items"]]
```

### Extract from Yahoo Finance

I'll use yahoo finance as our data source. It's fast, reliable and quite simple to request the data since we are going to use `yfinance` and `pandas_datareader`. Yeah, we'll be using `pandas` - this is going to add "a layer of complexity" in our deploy process, but it's going to be worth it in the long run. 

Start with `pip install yfinance pandas_datareader` and then import it

```python
import yfinance
from pandas_datareader import data as pdr

yfinance.pdr_override()
```

The last line might look awkward, but it just replaces the `pandas_datareader` yahoo downloader with the `yfinance` downloader. The `yfinance` downloader is faster and more flexible. Now, just add the download command to the `handler` function

```python
df = pdr.get_data_yahoo(" ".join(all_symbols), period="1d", interval="30m")
```

The line above downloads all symbols in our database from 24 hours ago until now using 30 minutes candlesticks. A candlestick is nothing more than a tuple of **open, close, low, high**, representing how the price behaved within a time interval.

### Process the Data

I won't develop any fancy strategy here. Actually, all we are going to do is to measure a single indicator and make an opinion from its value. The purpose of this tutorial is not to teach technical analysis, so I encourage you to look for some strategy yourself and implement it here instead.

I am going to start with `pip install ta`, a simple technical analysis uses `pandas`. With it installed, paste the snippet below in the `handler` function.

```python
for symbol, close in df["Close"].iteritems():
    rsi = RSIIndicator(close, n=14).rsi()

    last = rsi.iloc[-1]
    if last < 20:
        action = "buy"
    elif last > 80:
        action = "sell"
    else:
        continue
```

### Notify in Discord with Webhook

As you can see, we are doing nothing with the `action` variable. We want to send a notification in discord if we have an action. We cannot use the current bot for this, as this is supposed to run async while the bot is reactive. The solution is a **webhook**.

A webhook is a URL we can post info to and Discord is going to ship the info to some channel we specified. Getting your webhook url is really simple, [here's a tutorial](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668-Intro-to-Webhooks) for it, and it looks like this

```t
https://discord.com/api/webhooks/{webhook_id}/{webhook_token}
```

This is **sensitive information**, so you must save it in `.env`. Now just import `decouple` to use it safely in the function

```python
from decouple import config

DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL = config("DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL")
```

Next, we will import `requests` to and, inside the `for` loop inside `handler`, we make a post request when there's an `action`.

```python
requests.post(DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL, json={"content": f"time to {action} {symbol}", "tts": False})
```

Here, we didn't have to `pip install requests` because `yfinance` already installs it, that's why you can import it as well.

## Deploying the function to AWS Lambda

