---
title: Late is better than never!
date: "2020-06-01"
description:
language: english
category: blog
thumbnail: ""
keywords:
  - metawriting
  - programming
---

This is probably going to be harder that I initially considered. I was even writing a new post last friday, after the initial one, but some "engineering" questions had to be dealt with and this took me about three days to solve. However, they even weren't essential, but have everything to do with the posts I want to make.

The thing is that for most posts I intend to do, I think that simply writing is not educational enough. Therefore, I have to develop some "components" to show the idea in a better way. However, I found out two problems in my approach.

1. It is very easy to lose yourself and start "overengineering" the solution. From what I know, this has to do with a lack of planing and focus. If I had written all the post beforehand and then, during the editing phase, made the components, they would've become simpler and straighter to the point. I need to fix in my mind that **everything in the post that is not written has to help the understanding of what is written!** This also means that I have to look for that specific moment when dedicating more time and effort is not helping the educational purpose.
2. Beyond that, I noticed that mixing writing with programming are feasible (at least for me). Yesterday I worked on the so talked component for hours and, after finishing it, tried to dedicate the remaining "work hours" to writing this post, but it felt as if my mind was elsewhere. Good thing I am doing it right now!

I do not want to make this a post about productivity, but the matter at hand is accomplishment, real accomplishment. I could have dedicated my entire work week to this "component" and you, reader, would probably not even care or it could not be totally useful in the end. On the other hand, I only have myself "curating" this website, so I am prone to listen to what I think is good or bad.

In the end, I need to find the balance between what I think is best in the short term — e.g., making a new component, changing some styling — and what is best in the long term — e.g., writing more posts, SEO, studying. I hope I am able to make something you and I come to enjoy.
